One day in April 2011, the Overseer Body of Video Services came downstairs down to post
production, gathers everybody into a little room, and he says the governing body wants
to make an animated series for children, and they want to know if you can do it.
And so we all looked at each other, everybody's looking around the room.
Are we really going to make an animated series for children?
They really want this.
Back in the 1990s, the governing body was asked if a fully animated video for children
could be considered.
And evidently, it was not the proper time because the video was not approved.
But what a surprise in 2011 when the governing body approved a fully animated video series
for children.
The team immediately worked on creating a sample animation to show not just technically
how they could create a character in an environment, but also, more importantly, to show
how a lesson could be taught and how this could be a powerful tool.
The teaching committee loved it and gave full approval to produce a series.
Well, one clever idea was to have Caitlin portrayed as a small boy with a big, vivid imagination.
The intro with the stunt plane was significant, I think, because it showed that the governing
body was sending a message to children everywhere, saying that this is for you.
But also said to them, this character, he's just like you.
He's got an imagination, likes to play, and also just like you, he wants to be your
host's friend.
Well, that first video had hard deadlines that had to be met.
To meet those targets, some of the brothers had to at times work for 30 hours straight
on their computer.
Then they would take a nap, get back up and continue their work.
But the brothers had a beautiful spirit.
They told me a soldier does not work from 8 to 5.
He does whatever the cause demands, Satan's at war with our children.
We'll do whatever it takes to combat the devil.
The governing body completely shaped the teaching, the tone of this series, as you would expect.
One example was in the lesson on obedience where Caleb leaves his toys out and doesn't
listen to his mom.
An initial idea by the team was somebody slips on a toy, knocks over a candle, curtains
catch a fire, boom, house burns to the ground.
So that went to the governing body and they reviewed it and they said, well, that's pretty
scary.
Try a different idea.
That's a bit much.
We didn't want to do anything that needlessly frighten the children.
So we try to look at it from the parent perspective and some things we would not approve.
Even though the governing body rejected some of the team's ideas, they made it a point
to let the team know we want these creative ideas.
We encouraged the creativity.
And that really touched us and meant a lot to us and kept the team motivated to keep
presenting ideas.
We also had to plan out how translating branches would produce each of the pieces needed
for their DVD.
As each branch had finished their DVD, we put a copy of it on our wall to track the progress.
To our surprise, the wall started to fill up with discs and they spilled over to the
next wall and that was so encouraging for our team to see the progress.
So we really were excited to release it at the convention and it was amazing the work
that went into it.
We were able to release it in over 130 languages the first one.
What's remarkable is young ones are using this tool to apply Bible principles even before
they're old enough to attend school and it's helping them progress to the point of baptism.
Our son Markham was baptized in 2018.
Prior to his baptism when he was still young and learning, we were worried because Markham
had a problem with lying.
I noticed that the big green slimy things kept on growing bigger and bigger as Caleb kept
lying.
Seeing them, I had the picture of them stuck in my head.
So every time I ever wanted to or felt like lying, I would imagine them behind me growing
bigger and bigger as well and that helped me quite a lot.
After watching Caleb's father lovingly talking to Caleb and seeing Caleb listening when
his father used Bible characters to teach Caleb, I tried it with Sua.
Sua was receptive to this method and listened well to what we wanted to teach her.
This made me realize how effective the videos are.
We are very grateful.
We as parents are especially grateful to Jehovah for teaching us methods on how to raise
our children well.
I want to be Jehovah's friend like mom and dad.
I've had the privilege over these past 10 years to be in a lot of the children.
Some of them, when they first were being shown the videos and then grew a few years and
it's just a very evident Jehovah bless the project because wisdom is proved righteous
by its works.
This has worked.